In this module, we'll stick to the same application we worked on in the last course section, in the course
section about state management.
In this section, we'll of course build up on all of that but we'll have a look at how we can improve
our user interaction and also how we can handle user input in a better way than we did it before in
this course,
in this application we built in the last module, we're not doing it in any way. In detail,
that means that we'll have a look at how to show dialogs or snack bars which are basically info popups
to give the user more information, to give the user additional options on how to interact with the
application
and in general, improve the user experience.
In addition to these dialogs and snack bars, we'll also work on fetching user input though and we'll
fetch that with the help of text fields and forms.
Now you will learn what exactly a form is in Flutter and what the difference to normal text fields
is and you will also learn how to then validate user input,
how to manage the focus of the user, so how to manage into which input field the user may input data
and so on and all of that, we'll have a detailed look at all of that in this section to ensure that in
this app and of course in any app you're building, you can really interact with the user in the best possible
way. For that,
here's the application we worked on and of course here we already have some places where we interact
with the user.
We allow the user to filter here,
we allow the user to switch favorites and for example, add items to the cart but adding items to the cart
is already a first thing where we can start and improve that.
We don't really get a feedback here when we press the cart button especially for an item which is already
part of the cart and hence the badge doesn't update,
we don't really see that this was successful.
It would be nice to show a little info popup which doesn't interrupt the user flow,
so not a dialog where the user has to confirm something but a little info popup at the bottom of the
screen that confirms to a user,
yes we added something to the cart, that would be something nice.
In addition, in the cart you could say that when you delete an item here, maybe you don't want to delete
it automatically when the swipe continues but you want to ask the user if he's sure about that.
Now obviously, there is no clear right or wrong approach on how to do that, whether you want to ask or
not but I want to show you how you could ask at least.
So these are the things I'll start with and later we'll then also add another page here to which you
can go from our side drawer where we can manage our own products and that means where we can add, edit and
delete products and that will then of course involve fetching the user input through text fields.
But let's start with the info popup and the dialog.